<Practice Quiz: Advanced Git Interaction>
Question 1
Which of the following commands is NOT an example of a method for comparing or reviewing the changes made to a file?

Ans: git mv

Question 2
What is the gitignore file?

Ans: A file containing a list of files or filename patterns for Git to skip for the current repo.

Question 3
What kind of file will the command git commit -a not commit?

Ans: New files

Question 4
What does HEAD represent in Git?

Ans: The currently checked-out snapshot of your project

Question 5
If we want to show some stats about the changes in a commit, like which files were changed and how many lines were added or removed, what flag should we add to git log?

Ans: --stat

<Practice Quiz: Undoing Things>
Question 1
Let's say we've made a mistake in our latest commit to a public branch. Which of the following commands is the best option for fixing our mistake?

Ans: git revert

Question 2
If we want to rollback a commit on a public branch that wasn't the most recent one using the revert command, what must we do?

Ans: Use the commit ID at the end of the git revert command

Question 3
What does Git use cryptographic hash keys for?

Ans: To guarantee consistency of our repository

Question 4
What does the command git commit --amend do?

Ans: Overwrite the previousc commit

Question 5
How can we easily view the log message and diff output the last commit if we don't know the commit ID?

Ans: git show

<Practice Quiz: Branching & Merging>
Question 1
When we merge two branches, one of two algorithms is used. If the branches have diverged, which algorithm is used?

Ans: three-way merge

Question 2
The following code snippet represents the result of a merge conflict. Edit the code to fix the conflict and keep the version represented by the current branch.

Ans: print("Keep me!")

Question 3
What command would we use to throw away a merge, and start over?

Ans: git merge --abort

Question 4
How do we display a summarized view of the commit history for a repo, showing one line per commit?

Ans: git log --graph --online

Question 5
The following script contains the result of a merge conflict. Edit the code to fix the conflict, so that both versions are included.

Ans: 
def main():
    print("Start of program>>>>>>>")
    print("End of program!")
main()

