<Explore repository>
1. There is a Git repository named food-scripts consisting of a couple of food-related Python scripts.
Navigate to the repository using the following command:
cd ~/food-scripts

2. favorite_foods.log: This file consists of a list of food items. You can view it using the following command:
cat favorite_foods.log

3. food_count.py: This script returns a list of each food and the number of times the food appeared in the favorite_foods.log file.
Let's execute the script food_count.py:
./food_count.py

4. food_question.py: This prints a list of foods and prompts the user to enter one of those foods as their favorite. It then returns an answer of how many others in the list like that same food.
Run the following command to see the output of food_question.py script:
./food_question.py

<Understanding the repository>
Let's use the following Git operations to understand the workflow of the repository:
1. Git status: This displays paths that have differences between the index file and the current HEAD commit; paths that have differences between the working tree and the index file; and paths in the working tree that are not tracked by Git. You can view the status of the working tree using the command: [git status]
git status

2. You can now view the status of the working tree.
Git log: This lists the commits done in the repository in reverse chronological order; that is, the most recent commits show up first. This command lists each commit with its SHA-1 checksum, the author's name and email, date, and the commit message.

3. You can see logs by using the following command:
git log

4. Enter q to exit.

<Configure Git>
1. Before we move forward with the lab, let's configure Git. Git uses a username to associate commits with an identity. It does this by using the git config command. Set the Git username with the following command:
git config user.name "Name"

2. Replace Name with your name. Any future commits you push to GitHub from the command line will now be represented by this name. You can even use git config to change the name associated with your Git commits. This will only affect future commits and won't change the name used for past commits.
Let's set your email address to associate them with your Git commits.
git config user.email "user@example.com"

3. Replace user@example.com with your email-id. Any future commits you now push to GitHub will be associated with this email address. You can also use git config to change the user email associated with your Git commits

<Add a new feature>
1. In this section, we'll be modifying the repository to add a new feature, without affecting the current iteration. This new feature is designed to improve the food count (from the file food_count.py) output. So, create a branch named improve-output using the following command:
git branch improve-output

2. Move to the improve-output branch from the master branch.
git checkout improve-output

3. Here, you can modify the script file without disturbing the existing code. Once modified and tested, you can update the master branch with a working code.
Now, open food_count.py in the nano editor using the following command:
nano food_count.py

4. Add the line below before printing for loop in the food_count.py script:
print("Favourite foods, from most popular to least popular")

5. Save the file by pressing Ctrl-o, the Enter key, and Ctrl-x. Then run the script food_count.py again to see the output:
./food_count.py

6. After running the food_count.py script successfully, commit the changes from the improve-output branch by adding this script to the staging area using the following command:
git add food_count.py

7. Now, commit the changes you've done in the improve-output branch.
git commit -m "Adding a line in the output describing the utility of food_count.py script"

<Fix the script>
1. In this section, we'll fix the script food_question.py, which displayed an error when executing it. You can run the file again to view the error.
./food_question.py

2. This script gives us the error: "NameError: name 'item' is not defined" but your colleague says that the file was running fine before the most recent commit they did.
In this case, we'll revert back the previous commit.
For this, check the git log history so that you can revert back to the commit where it was working fine.
git log

3. Enter q to exit.

4. To revert, use the following command:
git revert [commit-ID]

5. Replace [commit-ID] with the commit ID you noted earlier.

6. This creates a new commit again. You can continue with the default commit message on the screen or add your own commit message.
Then continue by clicking Ctrl-o, the Enter key, and Ctrl-x.
Now, run food_question.py again and verify that it's working as intended.
./food_question.py

<Merge operation>
1. Before merging the branch improve-output, switch to the master branch from the current branch improve-output branch using the command below:
git checkout master

2. Merge the branch improve-output into the master branch.
git merge improve-output

3. Now, all your changes made in the improve-output branch are on the master branch.
./food_question.py

4. To get the status from the master branch, use the command below:
git status

5. To track the git commit logs, use the following command:
git log
